#summary Brief introduction & description of 802.11 security

= Introduction =

Two basic services are defined in wireless access control: authentication and data confidentiality. 

An RSNA (which forces a set of security requirements that must be obeyed by newly-produced wireless devices ) uses 802.1X authentication service + TKIP/CCMP to provide access control. 

= Authentication =

802.11 authentication operates at the link level between STAs. Two STAs will not be associated unless the authentication between them is completed successfully. 

802.11 defines two authentication methods: 
  * Open System Authentication
  * Shared Key Authentication

An RSNA also supports preshared key (PSK) based authentication. It utilizes EAP but allows different EAP methods to be used. 

Preauthentication is typically done by a Sta while it is already associated with an AP which is previously authenticated. This can greatly improve the mobility performance for BSS-transitioning.  

Deauthentication will definitely cause deassociation, and can be done by either side of the authenticated party. 

= Data Confidentiality =
"in the clear" state for sender and receiver when dealing with confidentiality: if not encryption method is specified, all the messages are sent without being protected; if the sender thinks it unacceptable, it shall not send the message; if the receiver thinks it unacceptable, it shall discard the message. 

= key Management =
4-Way handshake and Group Key Handshake.

= Data Origin Authenticity =




