#Authentication & Authorization & Accounting

= Radius =

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_RADIUS_Servers]
We choose FreeRADIUS.


= Hostapd =

[http://hostap.epitest.fi/hostapd/]

readme. Introduce how to configure the 802.1x and radius
[http://hostap.epitest.fi/gitweb/gitweb.cgi?p=hostap.git;a=blob_plain;f=hostapd/README]

= Captive Portal & Radius =

CoovaChilli[http://coova.org/wiki/index.php/CoovaChilli] (Based chillispot)

chillispot[http://www.chillispot.info/index.html]

nocatsplash[http://nocat.net/]
nodogsplash[http://kokoro.ucsd.edu/nodogsplash/]

m0n0wall [http://m0n0.ch/wall/]


= WPA/802.1x/EAP =
WPA = 'WiFi protected access' acronym developed by wifi
committee. It implies wireless access protected with
advanced Wireless security features.

802.1x = IEEE standard which defines port based Access control
Mechanism.

EAP = Extensible Authentication protocol, It is a framework
used in wired as well as wireless infrasture that
uses authentication server say RADIUS, to
authenticate users.

Lately, I found EAP,802.1x and WPA terms has been used interchangeably in supposedly "technical" magazine and
I think it is not right.

802.1x is a IEEE standard that defines port based access control, It proposes EAP as one of the authentication method as a method of Advanced authentication using TLS (Transport Layer security)and TTLS(Tunneled Transport Layered Security) , PEAP, LEAP etc. authentication protocols.

WPA is not necessarily EAP, a preshared Key (modelled after classic 10 hex digit WEP) can also be a protection mechanism and thus infrastrutures without EAP like authetication mechanism can be still termed as "with WPA".

802.1x is not necessarily has to be with EAP, It can be with say PPP as well.

Port based Access Control using EAP as per 802.1x standard means:
An access control device (sitting on the edge of the ISP network servicing subscriber/end-user)/Authenticator blocks
L3 connectivity for a particular L2 address untill its UserID+password, userID+client-certificate etc. based autheticity is verified using Authetication Sever.

Host+AP+Radius server combo would work as below:
EAP messages (Access-request, Access-challenge) are encapsulated as L2 payloads (without L3,L4 headers) between Authenticator (say, Access Point) and supplicant(host,laptop).
The responses are relayed as EAP messages wth regular networking heades(UDP-IP packets carrying say Radius headers with EAP-Access Requests) to Authentication Server (say, Radius) of ISP infrastructure.
Responses from Radius/ Authentication server (say Access-Accept)to AP/Autheticator are relayed again as EAP messages as L2-payload from AP/Authenticator to Host/Supplicant.

Supplicant <---EAP-L2---> Authenticator <---EAP-Radius-UDP-IP-L2------> Authtentication Server