#Cellular (CDMA, EVDO, GPRS, EDGE, WiMax, etc.) to Wi-Fi Hotspot Router.

= 3G or GPRS card with linux driver =
  * Many datacards made by Huawei support linux driver.
  * Teltonika 3G H7.2 Modem USB : Drivers available for Win2000 SP4 /XP /Vista/Tablet XP Pro /Mac OS X /Linux.
  * Vodafone Mobile Connect Card driver for Linux is a tool that allows you to establish a connection to the Internet using 3G cards. It also allows to send and receive short messages from your computer. The cards currently supported are: Huawei E620, Huawei E220 and Option GlobeTrotter 3G+ EMEA .
  * Vodafone 3G Datacard (UMTS/GPRS/GSM): [http://www.pharscape.org/content/view/28/]
  * Linux Compatibility Guides for 3G (WCDMA, UMTS, HSDPA) Laptops, Notebooks and USB Adapters. [http://tuxmobil.org/linux_on_laptops_with_umts_cards.html]
  * Linux PCMCIA/CF/CardBus Card Survey (sorted by Manufacturer). [http://tuxmobil.org/pcmcia_linux.html]

= Cellular (CDMA, EVDO, GPRS, EDGE, etc.) to Wi-Fi Hotspot Router =

[http://sewelldirect.com/evdo-wifi-router.asp]

Description

Imagine bringing your own wireless 802.11 signal anywhere you go. The router, in conjunction with the CDMA, EVDO, GPRS, EDGE, UMTS, and HSDPA PCMCIA card, allows you to share a wireless internet connection using the Verizon/Sprint EVDO signal anywhere.

Pricing & Discounts
1+	$739.95
3+	$729.95
10+	$724.95
30+	$719.95
100+	$699.95

= 3G Phoebus Portable Cellular Wi-Fi Router =

Description

Carry Around a Halo of Wi-Fi Wherever You Go

The 3G Phoebus portable cellular Wi-Fi router is the easiest, most economical way to convert CDMA, EVDO, GPRS, EDGE, UMTS, and HSDPA signals into a Wi-Fi/wired signal that can be shared simultaneously with any allowed user group.

The Easiest Cellular Wi-Fi Router on the Market

The 3G Phoebus accepts most cellular PCMCIA cards from the market today and you won't have to worry about different drivers or client software. Simply plug the PCMCIA card into the MB6000 and turn the power on and you will instantly be able to put multiple computers (ethernet wired or wireless) on the internet.

Pricing & Discounts
1+	$218.95
3+	$216.95
10+	$215.95

= Device Company =
top global usa [http://www.topglobalusa.com]
Moovera Networks[http://www.moovera.com/]