What cities need to do

Where I think we need to be focused, rather than continuing to look for ways of how we can entice cities with the promise of a telecommunications prince that will come and sweep them off their feet and make all their free Wi-Fi dreams come true, is in the following areas:

1.    Tell the truth: If cities and counties want to use broadband to provide enhanced services, it will require budgetary dollars in the short, medium and long term.  There will  be exceptions, but this will be the rule of thumb in the future. Not what cities necessarily want to hear, but my philosophy is that as a consultant I am not paid to tell cities what they want to hear, but what they need to hear. They also need to hear about real examples of where these investments are paying off in terms of municipal employees using networks to provide services. There were very few in 2006, but there are a lot more now.

A good example of one that is built on the right model is Gainesville Regional Utility, which plans to use the network for traffic synchronization, mobile public safety and other applications. The project has been capitalized properly using municipal funds($3-$4 million) and the fact that 22 service providers/integrators responded to the RFP is a sign that the business model works.

2.    Be honest with challenges: Was very refreshing to be on a conference call with several municipalities last week and hear them speak openly about deployment challenges as well as how these challenges are being overcome. This industry has been plagued by too many glowing reports of networks that just don’t measure up to their PR.

3.    Stop the bluffing:  Too often municipal negotiations are like high stakes poker games. I would encourage a more open dialogue, because if one party comes out feeling like they got the short end of the stick the project is already off on the wrong foot. In addition, if the City doesn’t have the money, say so and do not waste  the valuable time and money of the service provider that is responding to the RFP.

4.    Do the financial due diligence: Run the financial models from the perspective of the service provider and the municipality  to make sure that the business case works for both parties.

5.    Focus on operating expenses: I would assume  based on a figure of 20-30 percent of CAPEX that the operational expenditures were going to cost $2-$4 million per year to operate the network. Not something that Philly bargained for when they chose EarthLink. Other cities are facing the dilemma of $10K per square mile per year just for pole attachment and electricity usage. More thought needs to be given to  how to mount more radios on non-utility assets to eliminate these fees.

6.    Focus on capital expenditures: How can we get the node density and corresponding CAPEX per square mile to move downward, not upward? I think there are some promising developments in terms of smart radio technologies and the introduction of the 802.11n standard in client access radios.

7.    Focus on hybrid licensed/unlicensed networks: Licensed spectrum for mobile public safety and backhaul, unlicensed spectrum for public access.

8.    Consider partnerships with WiMAX service providers: I would suggest that cities explore this option now that WiMAX technology has moved from testing to the market launch phase. The capital expenditures per square mile lend themselves to a variety of network ownership models that are economically feasible.